---
title: How to Integrate Aspose.BarCode for .NET with Aspose.Words
type: docs
weight: 30
url: /net/how-to-integrate-aspose-barcode-for-net-with-aspose-words/
---

In this article, we will learn about how we can add a barcode image generated by Aspose.BarCode into a Microsoft Word document (*.doc) programmatically by integrating [Aspose.BarCode](http://www.aspose.com/categories/.net-components/aspose.barcode-for-.net/default.aspx) and [Aspose.Words](http://www.aspose.com/categories/.net-components/aspose.words-for-.net/default.aspx) components. Aspose.Words is one of the leading components offered by Aspose Pty Ltd. that allows developers to create and manage Microsoft Word documents programmatically. The discussion about Aspose.Words is beyond the scope of this article. We will only use Aspose.Words in this article to create a Word document and insert the barcode image (generated by Aspose.BarCode) into the document.
## **Creating the Barcode**
First of all, we will create an object of BarcodeGenerator. The desired data to be encoded into a barcode will be assigned to CodeText property of the BarcodeGenerator. Code128 symbology will be selected from the EncodeType enumeration and then assigned to EncodeType property of the BarcodeGenerator as shown below:
#### **C#**
{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-CreatingBarCode-CreatingBarCode.cs" >}}
## **Creating a Word Document with Barcode Image**
Aspose.Words provides a Document class that represents a Microsoft Word document. We can create an instance of the Document class by calling its empty constructor. To add content to the Document, a DocumentBuilder class is supplied by Aspose.Words. The Document object (in which the barcode image will be added) is passed to the constructor of DocumentBuilder that inserts the barcode image into the Word document by calling its InsertImage method. The insertImage method takes the barcode image created by Aspose.BarCode using the GenerateBarCodeImage method of the BarcodeGenerator object as shown below:
#### **C#**
{{< gist "aspose-com-gists" "f801733f5eb53b0777dd38da9db8366a" "Examples-CSharp-TechnicalArticles-CreatingWordDocumentWithBarcodeImage-CreatingWordDocumentWithBarcodeImage.cs" >}}
## **Conclusion**
Integration of Aspose.BarCode with Aspose.Words is rather easy than other Aspose Components. Aspose.Words provides a very simple API that makes it flexible for developers to add barcode functionality in their Word documents.
